
<h2>
<a href="http://cecs.wright.edu/~pmateti/Courses/4350/Top/">CEG4350/6350 OS Internals + Design</a></h2>

<h1>P0: Intro to the FileSys Project</h1>

<p>The project for the current semester is to implement portions of an
OS based on the designs explored in the lectures.  A piece of this
project is due every other week or so during the semester.  You must
read and follow the
<a href="4350projects.html">Project Expectations</a>.

<h2> Overview of the Code</h2>

This is start up code for the File Sys Project.  It is written in C++,
but using minimal features of OOP.  Good OOP style is not a goal in
CEG 4350; e.g., our classes let almost all of their fields be public.

You are expected to *carefully* study the code in these files.  You
must understand their internals thoroughly.

The design follows faithfully the details of i-node based file
volumes, (to be) described in the lectures.  The code segments that
invoke TODO() are for you to (eventually) develop during the term.
The file fstypes.h has more detail than what is needed just for P0.
The extra declarations are useful in P1, P2, ...

We often do not use the typical constructors.  The methods named
create() and reCreate() are our "constructors."  The name create is
used when the simulated disk is "fresh" and a file volume is yet to be
made out of it.  The name reCreate is used when re-creating the
objects from the file volume image that is already present on the
simulated disk.

The P0 code as given is not robust.   You should check that the "new"
operator does return a non-0 pointer.  There are a few other checks
that I omitted in order to keep the main logic from being cluttered.

All methods, unless trivial, should have pre- and post-conditions.  In
the given code there are several examples of these.  You are expected
to supply all the missing pre- post- conditions!

<pre>
% sloccount --details .
24      mkfile  P0      P0/Makefile
45      cpp     P0      P0/volume.C
17      cpp     P0      P0/directory.C
65      cpp     P0      P0/bitVector.C
218     cpp     P0      P0/shell.C
112     cpp     P0      P0/file.C
77      cpp     P0      P0/simDisk.C
157     cpp     P0      P0/iNodes.C
139     cpp     P0      P0/fstypes.h
830     all     P0      cpp=830, total
</pre>

<h2>Your Task</h2>

<p>
This P0 is about improving the code given in P0.tbz.  The real motive
is to make sure you understand it thoroughly.  You worked with this
code in Lab L0.  It is the beginning of a tiny file system.
Read also <a href="../4350L0.html">4350 Lab L0: Getting Started</a>.

<ol>

  <li>You will find that P0, as given, is functional, but very fragile.
    Improve it so that it is crash-proof no matter what inputs are
    given.  </li>

  <li>Improve it so that the resulting binary is smaller (see <code> man
      size</code>) by at least 5%, without losing any functionality, and yet
    the source code is easier to understand.  </li>

  <li>Make sure the source code of <code>simDisk.C</code> always
    properly initilizes the data members 

    <blockquote>    <pre>
        char labelOfTheDisk[LabelSZ + 1];
        uint nSectorsPerDisk;
        uint nBytesPerSector;
    </pre>    </blockquote>

    of the class.  Note that the "superblock" is the first sector of the
    simulated-disk, and the <code>class superBlock</code> duplicates these
    member fields.</li>

  <li>Think of improving the P0 <i>code</i> in yet another way -- of
    your own.  Not by adding extra functionality.  Not by doing
    something you did in L0 either.

</ol>
<p>Describe the changes you made in a file
named <code>improvements.txt</code>.  In later project phases, we (you
and I) will replace all invocations of TODO by working
code.</p>

